## Game Build Link:
https://pranavdivichenchu.wixstudio.io/main/blank-2

# Please briefly describe what your app does.
Eco Spark is playable alongside other Cognicade Studios games on this website: https://pranavdivichenchu.wixstudio.io/main.
Eco Spark is a game designed to teach players about budgeting and taking care of the environment. The player enters the game after being elected mayor of a new city. The previous government, however, left the city in a not-so-great spot, with lots of factories, drills, and other things polluting the environment. As the new mayor, the player helps rebuild the city, turning it into a thriving metropolis fueled by renewable energy. The new mayor has to budget their funds properly, ensuring they can meet energy demands without polluting the environment. As the game progresses, new technologies are unlocked, which produce more energy and reduce surrounding pollution. The game is about maintaining the perfect balance between the happiness of the people, their energy usage and demands, and the health of the environment.
The gameplay is mainly based on controlling the balance between environmentally-friendly policies, and policies that increase the public standard of life. Both of those criteria are assigned a "score" between 1-100, and they are adjusted throughout the mayor's term depending on their policies. The mayor needs 3 resources - money, energy, and research points. Money allows for the creation and destruction of buildings; it is collected through contracts and housing. Energy is a measurement of your city's net production, and additional housing and research labs use it. Research points can be used in a research skill tree, in which the mayor can upgrade certain aspects of the city, such as the efficiency of wind turbines and eco-friendly housing. These systems are then integrated into the game loop - the player wins the game if they can survive for the mayoral term (30 days), without having an eco score or public approval below 10%.
Our app is implemented in C# using Unity. The city is randomly generated based on an algorithm known as wavefunction collapse, which picks a random ungenerated position, and creates a random tile on it from its list of possible tiles. After generating one tile, it updates the list of possible tiles that can be generated in all of its neighbors and iterates until the entire city is generated. The research system uses a topological graph of conditions, which is a list of research prerequisites for each upgrade. When all the prerequisites for an upgrade are met, the UI is updated.

# What inspired you to create this app?
Looking around at the world’s problems, a clear struggle we as a nation are struggling through is the use of non-renewable resources, such as fossil fuels and crude oils. Specifically, the problem we are trying to solve is the population not knowing how to be environmentally sustainable and creating plans that will help them with that goal. For example, many citizens do not understand that installing solar panels is far better for the planet and how over time they are cheaper to use for energy. Thus, our inspiration stems from our deep-rooted interest in helping create a society that is knowledgeable about how to be environmentally conscious, striving to maintain the health of the people. 
Creating a city-builder game was the perfect solution because games can both educate and entertain people in a way that simple apps are not able to. In the game, players can develop and work in their city where they are tasked to create an environmentally sustainable community that has the support of the people while also being able to generate electricity efficiently. By creating the game, we hope to empower players to see first-hand how being Eco-friendly can benefit a city. Furthermore, we hope to instill a sense of agency, by encouraging individuals to make a meaningful contribution to their community and maybe even their nation. 
This game is necessary in Northern Virginia, where data centers are rapidly being built all across the region to accommodate the rise in necessity for data storage, with this comes the major problem of energy. Each data center requires approximately 1.5 gigawatts of energy and there are currently around 300 centers located in Northern Virginia. This means as the demand for data storage continues to grow, we as a community must make the transition from non-renewable sources of energy to renewable sources to protect our planet. 
Furthermore, according to the Virginia Renewable Energy Coalition, renewable sources of energy like wind and solar could reduce the state’s reliance on fossil fuels by 30% by the end of 2030. Additionally, the increased utilization of renewable energy could create over 50,000 jobs in Virginia according to the U.S. Department of Energy. However, the knowledge of the residents of Virginia about the possibility of saving our planet with renewable resources remains a massive problem. Thus, by educating citizens about the massive benefits of renewable energy through gameplay, we hope to bridge that gap. 

#What technical difficulties did you face programming your app?
One technical difficulty that we faced was the differences between the computers of all of our team members. Most of us have Windows computers, but one of our team members had to use a Linux system to code for a little bit. The change between Linux and Windows was a problem since the two operating systems use different methods of line endings, and writing a file with one type of line ending would render it unreadable for the other operating system. The problem with line endings corrupted a significant amount of the files in the project, with a lot of them being pictures. The image files had to be re-downloaded, which ended up taking a lot of time that could have been used to further our project. Eventually, we ended up solving the problem by quarantining all the corrupted files and replacing them with new ones. We also debugged the corrupted files and made sure that everyone was using the same versions of development software to write their code.
Another problem that we faced as we were developing the app was multiple people trying to access the same file. There were several scenes in the game that were all originally isolated from each other. This allowed for testing/development of individual features without having to keep everyone else waiting and led to fast progress. However, towards the end of the creation process, it was necessary to combine all of the different features together into one scene and have that be the place where the final game was stored. The problem with this is that only one person can be editing a scene at a time. If multiple people are editing, then the same exact file is being modified by Unity with multiple versions at the same time. Since unity files aren’t readable, it’s not possible to look at multiple versions of the scene and figure out which one is the most recent. This led to a lot of confusion between us, since the code that was worked by one person was suddenly disappearing without a trace, and sometimes there was duplicate code as well. To fix this, we decided to make some more temporary scenes whenever something new was being added that didn’t need to be in the main scene, and we talked with each other to make sure multiple people weren’t editing the same scene at the same time.

# What improvements would you make if you were to create a 2.0 version of your app?
Our main improvements in a 2.0 version would be more realism and interactiveness. For example, we would balance the game's energy resources and units to effectively resemble real-world energy management. Furthermore, we would add dialogues to our contract system, where the user could directly talk to certain people about their contracts, and negotiate. This would be implemented through prompt engineering and an openAI API call, giving the contractors unique personalities. Another feature we would add would be a more interactive learn menu, with walkthroughs and detailed steps.
We would also add more buildings and more control over the city's policies: For example, we could add a trading aspect, in which the player can trade energy resources and receive help from other cities. We also want to add more research upgrades, by building things such as a research lab and innovation center. Also, we want to add types of housing that the user can invest in that are more eco-friendly. Finally, we want to create a feedback form, which would allow players to inform the developers about bugs and requested UI/UX balancing in the game, allowing us to make this game more vibrant and community-driven.
Overall, we want our game to be more immersive and more fun to play, helping attract more players and allowing us to be more successful in our mission of impacting climate change.
Finally, we have turned our app into the beginning of a startup, Cognicade Studios, where we plan to make more educational games addressing a variety of urgent topics in STEM. Cognicade Studios is currently implemented as a website on Wix.com for all of the games that we have made in the past, including Eco-Spark. In the future, we want to code this website ourselves and host it on a custom domain for more accessibility. We also want to make a new course under our startup that teaches coding to kids. Because of that, we have made our game's code fully open-source under the MIT license. Through this course, others will learn how to create helpful apps and games that will make a positive impact. In Eco Spark 2.0, we will publish Cognicade Studios' games on mobile phones, helping us reach a broader audience. Ultimately, we want to use our experience and the tools we learned about from this year's Congressional App Challenge to raise awareness about contemporary issues by creating more educational games.
